Modify rule S3584: Expand to cover LaYC (#2612)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S3584/cfamily/rule.adoc

Memory allocated dynamically with `calloc(...)`, `malloc(...)`, `realloc(...)`, or `new` should be released when it is not needed anymore.
Failure to do so will result in a memory leak that could severely hinder application performance or abort it or the entire host machine.

== Why is this an issue?

Memory is a limited resource shared between all the applications running on the same host machine.

> C, Objective-C, and {cpp} do not manage memory.

Author: Indeed, seems that Objective-C has GC and reference counting depending on the version. Removed it from the list.
Also rewrote it to be specifically about reclaiming memory

> The developer has to keep track of the memory they use in the application.

Author: Rephrased

- The operating system (if any) starts offloading some of the memory pages to disk and slows down some memory accesses by orders of magnitude.
- The entire system crashes as a whole and reboots automatically or hangs waiting for a manual reboot.

Moreover, memory leaks can help an attacker to take over the system.
An attacker could use a memory leak to fill the memory with malicious code.
This facilitates remote code execution through another chained vulnerability.

Even if the attacker cannot take over the system she can
intentionally trigger the condition leading to a memory leak
to make use of the issue above and cause denial-of-service (DoS) of the system.

A memory leak can have a significant impact on the energy footprint of an application.

- If an application demands more memory than necessary,
  the user will have to install more memory banks than necessary.
  Each memory bank consumes additional power.
- As the application continues to reserve more and more memory,
  it places an increased load on the memory management subsystem.
  This increased load can lead to a larger computation demand,
  which in turn translates to higher power consumption by the CPU.

> Finally, memory leaks lead to user frustration.

Author: rewritten

The user often experiences a system slowdown
caused by the uncontrolled memory use of an application.
Delayed response time, system freezes, and crashes degrade the user experience
and discourage the further use of the application.

=== Exceptions

> This rule ignores allocated memory

Author: In my understanding, exceptions are not necessarily something that "we should detect". Rather they are cases that one might think satisfy the rule description but are ignored by the analyzer.

> If the pointer is returned or saved to global variable, the underlying memory cannot be freed, if someone is going to use that pointer. So this is not leak.

Yes, if someone is going to use that pointer it is not a leak.
And if someone is not going to use that pointer it is a leak. Some of such cases could theoretically be reported if our analysis considered the whole program rather than a single function with its callees.

So this section describes the cases the rule ignores (due to a technical limitation) + some cases that should not be reported at all. In my opinion that is a good fit for the "Exceptions" section.

Also, this section is rather short - a single paragraph, and it would look awkward if I put half of the paragraph into the title of a non-standard section
```
=== What if memory is returned, or saved in global variable

This rule ignores such cases.
```

> This rule ignores allocated memory

Author: I added a short paragraph motivating the exception

> This rule ignores allocated memory

Reviewer: Let me think about it. Because, if we allocated that memory and *leak* it during the evaluation of top-level function, we will report the leak. For example when you assign to a global variable and the override it. This section suggest that we are always ignoring it.

> This rule ignores allocated memory

Reviewer: Let me think about it. Because, if we allocated that memory and *leak* it during the evaluation of top-level function, we will report the leak. For example when you assign to a global variable and the override it. This section suggest that we are always ignoring it.

> This rule ignores allocated memory

Author: @tomasz-kaminski-sonarsource 
I have rewritten the section to follow the structure we discussed: introduce "escaping", describe the difficulty, declare that "escaping" pointers are ignored

if a pointer to it is `+return+`ed to the caller
or stored in a structure that is external to the function.
This includes storing the pointer in a static or global variable,
passing it to a function that can potentially do that,
or returning the pointer directly or as part of an aggregate object.

== How to fix it

Ask yourself whether you need to allocate memory on the heap.
If your object is small enough,
in many cases allocating it as a local variable on the stack is a better choice
as it simplifies memory management.

If you do need to allocate it on the heap,
the direct fix for a memory leak is to make sure you always deallocate memory.

> In {cpp} you should use RAII (resource acquisition is initialization) idiom.

Reviewer: I would sugget having RAII in going extra mail with a small note here. You could then think of reusing the shared description, and following it with something that says that this make sure that memory is freed when object is destroyed, and can no longer be used.

Author: Added the section

Instead of operating on a raw pointer, wrap it into a smart pointer that will
own it and take care of its deallocation.

> If you cannot use any of the above or you are using C,

Reviewer: I would not start this if you are in C, personally, I would change the order of the manual and CPP solution. For C++ I would consider the RAII to be fitting more going extra mile, and would think of resuing the RAII section.

If the ruse would happen, I would suggest following it in comment with something akin -> this leads to release of memory when the object is destroyed, and can no longer be used.

Author: Changed to "alternatively"

> If you cannot use any of the above or you are using C,

Reviewer: I would change this with alternatively. The current one sounds like you are bashing on C.

Author: Changed to "alternatively"

This facilitates remote code execution through another chained vulnerability.

Even if the attacker cannot take over the system she can
intentionally trigger the condition leading to a memory leak
to make use of the issue above and cause denial-of-service (DoS) of the system.

A memory leak can have a significant impact on the energy footprint of an application.

- If an application demands more memory than necessary,
  the user will have to install more memory banks than necessary.
  Each memory bank consumes additional power.
- As the application continues to reserve more and more memory,
  it places an increased load on the memory management subsystem.
  This increased load can lead to a larger computation demand,
  which in turn translates to higher power consumption by the CPU.

Finally, memory leaks degrade user experience.
The user often experiences a system slowdown
caused by the uncontrolled memory use of an application.
Delayed response time, system freezes, and crashes degrade the user experience
and discourage the further use of the application.

=== Exceptions

If a function `+return+`s a pointer to the caller or stores it in an external structure,

> this pointer is said to _escape_ (it escapes the scope of the analysis).

Reviewer: I think we may avoid referring to analysis.
```suggestion
this pointer is said to _escape_ (it is now accessible outside of function, and no longer local to it).
```
